#CNV-30305 - new NAD localnet content (#70940)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-creating-nad-localnet-console.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-connecting-vm-to-ovn-secondary-network.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-creating-nad-localnet-console_{context}"]
= Creating a NAD for localnet topology using the web console

You can create a network attachment definition (NAD) to connect workloads to a physical network by using the {product-title} web console.

.Prerequisites

> * Use nmstate to configure a localnet identifier.

Reviewer: should we link here to the openshift documentation where we explain how to configure this ? 

I mean ... Coming here without knowing what this is would leave me pretty confused - what's a localnet identifier ? 

Furthermore, maybe calling it "localnet to bridge mapping" would be more aligned with the rest of the documentation.

https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/networking/multiple_networks/configuring-additional-network.html#configuring-additional-network_configuration-additional-network-interface

Author: @maiqueb IIUC, this configuration will be in the CLI version of these same docs? In which case, it will be included in this same assembly. I can't link directly to it because we can't cross-reference between modules (only assemblies). But if it's in the CLI docs, it will be nearby. 

If it's not in those docs, let me know and I'll figure something else out.

Reviewer: > @maiqueb IIUC, this configuration will be in the CLI version of these same docs? In which case, it will be included in this same assembly. I can't link directly to it because we can't cross-reference between modules (only assemblies). But if it's in the CLI docs, it will be nearby.
> 
> If it's not in those docs, let me know and I'll figure something else out.

I don't follow - some of it is because I don't know the difference between an assembly and a module (I don't even know what those are ...).

I'm just asking to link to the openshift networking documentation where we show - using the CLI - how the ovn localnet bridge mappings are configured (which is a prerequisite of the UI you're developing).

Author: Sorry about the docs terminology! Done and done.

> * Use nmstate to configure a localnet identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use nmstate to configure the localnet to OVS bridge mappings.
```

And probably in the additional resources explicitly list `Configuration for an OVN-Kubernetes additional network mapping` - i.e. https://70940--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/networking/multiple_networks/configuring-additional-network#configuring-additional-network_configuration-additional-network-interface to help the user out.

> * Use nmstate to configure the localnet to OVS bridge mappings.

Reviewer 2: Not familiar with this but should nmstate be formatted with backticks? (is it a command?) Backticks are used in [this module](https://70940--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator#k8s-nmstate-about-the-k8s-nmstate-operator) ("OpenShift Container Platform uses `nmstate`") so maybe?

.Procedure

. Navigate to *Networking* -> *NetworkAttachmentDefinitions* in the web console.

. Click *Create Network Attachment Definition*. The network attachment definition must be in the same namespace as the pod or virtual machine using it.

> . Enter a unique *Name* and optional *Description*.

Reviewer: I'm curious: this description attribute is only for the UI right ? There's nothing in the NAD to store this afaik.

Author: @phoracek See question above.

Reviewer 3: AFAIK UI stores the description in the NAD's annotation

> . Select *OVN Kubernetes secondary localnet network* from the *Network Type list*.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if "list" is part of the field label but if not, I would remove bold.

> . Enter the name of your pre-configured localnet identifier in the Bridge mapping field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Enter the name of your pre-configured localnet identifier in the *Bridge mapping* field.
```
Bold if a GUI field name.

> . Optional: You can explicitly set MTU to the specified value. Defaults to the value chosen by the kernel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Optional: You can explicitly set MTU to the specified value. The default value is chosen by the kernel.
```

Reviewer 2: or "This field defaults to the value chosen by the kernel." (to avoid a sentence fragment)

> . Optional: Encapsulate the traffic in a VLAN. Defaults to none.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Optional: Encapsulate the traffic in a VLAN. The default value is none.
```
(to avoid sentence fragment)
